---
title: "Herschel-resolved Outer Belts of Two-belt Debris Disks—Evidence of Icy Grains"
authors: "F. Y. Morales, G. Bryden, M. W. Werner, and K. R. Stapelfeldt"
publicated: "2016-10-28"
journal: The Astrophysical Journal
picture:
    url: "https://content.cld.iop.org/journals/0004-637X/831/1/97/revision1/apjaa3807f5a_lr.jpg"
    alt: "Figure 5. SEDs for 18 resolved debris systems."
doi: "10.3847/0004-637X/831/1/97"
---
We present dual-band Herschel/PACS imaging for 59 main-sequence stars with known warm dust (Twarm ∼ 200 K), characterized by Spitzer. Of 57 debris disks detected at Herschel wavelengths (70 and/or 100 and 160 μm), about half have spectral energy distributions (SEDs) that suggest two-ring disk architectures mirroring that of the asteroid–Kuiper Belt geometry; the rest are consistent with single belts of warm, asteroidal material. Herschel observations spatially resolve the outer/cold dust component around 14 A-type and 4 solar-type stars with two-belt systems, 15 of which for the first time. Resolved disks are typically observed with radii >100 AU, larger than expected from a simple blackbody fit. Despite the absence of narrow spectral features for ice, we find that the shape of the continuum, combined with resolved outer/cold dust locations, can help constrain the grain size distribution and hint at the dust’s composition for each resolved system. Based on the combined Spitzer/IRS+Multiband Imaging Photometer (5-to-70 μm) and Herschel/PACS (70-to-160 μm) data set, and under the assumption of idealized spherical grains, we find that over half of resolved outer/cold belts are best fit with a mixed ice/rock composition. Minimum grain sizes are most often equal to the expected radiative blowout limit, regardless of composition. Three of four resolved systems around the solar-type stars, however, tend to have larger minimum grains compared to expectation from blowout (fMB = amin/aBOS ∼ 5). We also probe the disk architecture of 39 Herschel-unresolved systems by modeling their SEDs uniformly, and find them to be consistent with 31 single- and 8 two-belt debris systems.
